EJAM Environmental Justice Analysis Multisite tool
================

# <img src="man/figures/logo659.png" align="right" width="250px"/>

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit Rmd not md  -->
<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- or we could comment out the badge 
&#10;[![Lifecycle: experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)
 -->
<!-- badges: end -->

EJScreen’s Environmental Justice Analysis Multi-site Tool (EJAM) is a
resource provided by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(US EPA). It lets you easily and quickly see demographic and
environmental information aggregated within and across hundreds or
thousands of places, all at the same time.

### What is EJAM?

- [What is EJAM?](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/0_whatis.html)

### EJAM as a Web App

- EJAM is EJScreen’s tool for providing multisite reports. It can be
  reached from the [EJScreen website](https://www.epa.gov/ejscreen) and
  [EJScreen Mapping application](https://ejscreen.epa.gov/mapper/).

### EJAM as a Software Toolkit for Analysts and Developers

[The EJAM R Package for Analysts and
Developers](https://github.com/USEPA/EJAM?tab=readme-ov-file#the-ejam-r-package-for-analysts-and-developers)
written in the [R programming language](https://www.r-project.org/),
with source code on GitHub. When used in RStudio, the EJAM package
provides functions to help analysts work with block group data, points,
and polygons, to very quickly aggregate and compare large numbers of
locations. Note that EJAM also can be used as a web app by R/RStudio
users if the package is installed and the shiny app is launched locally
on a user’s own computer.

- [Installing the R
  package](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/1_installing.html)

- [Quick Start
  Guide](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/2_quickstart.html)

- [Basics of Using EJAM for Analysis in
  RStudio](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/3_analyzing.html)

- [Advanced
  Features](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/4_advanced.html)

- [Reference Manual - EJAM R Functions and
  Data](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/index.html)

- [GitHub Repository - Code and
  Data](https://github.com/USEPA/EJAM#readme "https://github.com/USEPA/EJAM#readme")

### Open-Source Code Policy

Effective August 8, 2016, the <a
href="https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/default/files/omb/memoranda/2016/m_16_21.pdf"
class="uri" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">OMB Mandate:
M-16-21; Federal Source Code Policy: Achieving Efficiency, Transparency,
and Innovation through Reusable and Open Source Software</a> applies to
new custom-developed code created or procured by EPA consistent with the
scope and applicability requirements of Office of Management and
Budget’s (OMB’s) Federal Source Code Policy. In general, it states that
all new custom-developed code by Federal Agencies should be made
available and reusable as open-source code.

The EPA specific implementation of OMB Mandate M-16-21 is addressed in
the <a
href="https://www.epa.gov/irmpoli8/policy-procedures-and-guidance-system-life-cycle-management-slcm"
class="uri" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">System Life Cycle
Management Procedure</a>. EPA has chosen to use GitHub as its version
control system as well as its inventory of open-source code projects.
EPA uses GitHub to inventory its custom-developed, open-source code and
generate the necessary metadata file that is then posted to code.gov for
broad reuse in compliance with OMB Mandate M-16-21.

If you have any questions or want to read more, check out the
<a href="https://github.com/USEPA/open-source-projects" class="uri"
target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">EPA Open Source Project
Repo</a> and <a
href="https://www.epa.gov/developers/open-source-software-and-epa-code-repository-requirements"
class="uri" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">EPA’s Interim Open
Source Code Guidance</a>.

### Contributing

- [How to
  Contribute](https://github.com/USEPA/EJAM/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

  - We encourage analysts and developers to test the EJAM R package and
    the EJAM shiny app, and provide feedback, or to share code, and we
    welcome your suggestions or contributions.

### License

By submitting a pull request or issue, you are agreeing to comply with a
waiver of copyright interest.

### Disclaimer for App

This software/application has been approved for release by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). Although the software has been
subjected to rigorous review, the USEPA reserves the right to update the
software as needed pursuant to further analysis and review. No warranty,
expressed or implied, is made by the USEPA or the U.S. Government as to
the functionality of the software and related material nor shall the
fact of release constitute any such warranty. Furthermore, the software
is released on condition that neither the USEPA nor the U.S. Government
shall be held liable for any damages resulting from its authorized or
unauthorized use.

### Disclaimer for GitHub Repository Content

The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) GitHub project
code is provided on an “as is” basis and the user assumes responsibility
for its use. EPA has relinquished control of the information and no
longer has responsibility to protect the integrity, confidentiality, or
availability of the information. Any reference to specific commercial
products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark,
manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their
endorsement, recommendation or favoring by EPA. The EPA seal and logo
shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any commercial
product or activity by EPA or the United States Government.

### Contact

If you have questions or comments, please contact the EJScreen team in
EPA’s OEJECR, and for technical questions contact Mark Corrales
(corrales.mark@epa.gov).
